<<<<<<< HEAD:_posts/2021-09-09-post2.md
R vs Other Languages
================
Victoria Seng
9/9/2021
=======
---
layout: post
title: Programming Background
---
>>>>>>> da36735a11c771b4d9a87bbd30e26224ffb9e2c1:_posts/post2.md

## R vs Other Languages

**Everyone in this course had some programming experience coming in (due
to the prerequisites). What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other
software you’ve used? What functionality do you like about R? What parts
do you miss about your other language? Do you consider R a difficult
language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the course, describe your
experience when first learning it.)**

I’ve used a few programming languages, learned either for work or for
school.

### SQL

My first language was SQL, which is markup, not programming, but was a
great way to begin understanding relational databases. I learned
PostgreSQL first and have branched out a little into MySQL based on
various platforms I use at work. I’d consider SQL a quality-of-life
add-on to other languages. You can use PROC SQL in SAS and you can use
SQL in R. It just seems to reduce reliance on MS
Access/Tableau/what-have-you. It wasn’t too tough to learn because I had
coworkers to talk to and their queries to look at as examples.

### Python

I also started writing python scripts for work in order to automate some
repetitive reporting work and to create DIY integrations between various
aspects of our tech stack. I think Python has a lot more versatility
than R and has a greater amount of API wrappers, but I get the
impression that the tidyverse is going to be a lot easier to work with
than numPy/pandas, so I’m not sure yet. Python was the hardest to learn
because it was my first actual programming language, my first time
working with APIs, and was working exclusively with Professor Google.
There was a steep learning curve that stood apart from new-language
syntax.

### Deluge

I learned the lo-code Zoho language, Deluge (Java-esque, but with a
bunch of built-in functions. Similar to the Salesforce language) when we
started working with that CRM for work. Deluge isn’t really a comparable
language since it is used only in very specific circumastances. It’s a
cool little language that makes me think I’d like Java. It has some
weird quirks, but wasn’t difficult to learn. Its documented quite well.

### SAS

In this Program, I’ve worked with SAS in two classes. It isn’t my
favorite, though I don’t actively dislike it or anything. We don’t use
it at work (wrong industry, wrong company size) and I’m not super
interested in the industries that actively use SAS. So while it is
interesting to learn, I doubt I’ll ever do anything with it. SAS was the
most fascinating to learn though. Because I was iin a class dedicated to
it, I got all the context behind what’s happening in the black box
between running the code and the output. I also got a lot of useful info
about programming efficiently that’s transferred to other languages.

### R

I did the free Code Academy courses on R in preparation for this class
just to get a handle on some of the basic syntax. Other than that, I’m
fresh. So far, the learning curve has been very manageable, and the
packages we’ve used so far have had good documentation.

## Example R Markdown Output

![](../images/thePlot-1.png)<!-- -->
