Data Science v Statistics
================
Victoria Seng
9/9/2021

**What do you think being a data scientist is about?**

Being a data scientist is about being proactive. An analyst can look
through historical numbers and pass along KPIs. Data science is more
about owning the info from ingestion to stakeholder and using it to
proactively predict as well as report using various methodologies. It
requires a great deal of technical acumen, mathematics/statistics
know-how, and a comprehensive understanding of business objectives.

**What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?**

Foundation in math/statistics. Mastery of computer science & machine
learning. High-level perspective and business acumen to act proacively
to drive company mission.

Bonus, but really just required: Ability to communicate and data
storytell to stakeholders with lower data literacy.

**What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and
statisticians?**

To me, data science is more focused on the intersection between
statistics, computer science, and business context. Statistics is very
similar, but may use different collection methods or smaller samples and
has more applications for research and academia as well as certain
industries where experiments are required. Both do similar things:
describe, inference, predict. Just to different kinds of collected data
and sometimes in different ways.

**How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?**

The point of me at work is proactively enabling leadership to make
informed business decisions. I think to be the best at my job I can
possibly be, I need a healthy understanding of the basics of both, with
the goal of leaning more into data science.

I’m currently at “analyst” level. I require a firmer foundation in
statistics and additional programming experience.
